Adobe Experience Platform:
https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/profile/tutorials/add-profile-data.html?lang=en

postman is the platform used for calling RESTAPI

Use Adobe Experience Data Model (XDM) to standardize customer experience data and define schemas for customer experience management.
Enable a schema for Real-Time Customer Profile:


Data being ingested into Experience Platform for use by Real-Time Customer Profile must conform to an Experience Data Model (XDM) schema that is enabled for Profile. 
In order for a schema to be enabled for Profile, it must implement either the XDM Individual Profile or XDM ExperienceEvent class.

You can enable a schema for use in Real-Time Customer Profile using the Schema Registry API or the Schema Editor user interface. 
To get started, follow the tutorials for creating a schema using APIs or creating a schema using the Schema Editor UI.

Add data using batch ingestion:

All data uploaded to Platform using batch ingestion is uploaded to individual datasets. Before this data can be used by Real-Time Customer Profile, the dataset in question has to be specifically configured. For complete instructions, see the tutorial on configuring a dataset for Profile and Identity Service.

Once the dataset has been configured, you can start ingesting data into it. See the batch ingestion developer guide for detailed steps on how to upload files in different formats.

Add data using streaming ingestion:

Any stream-ingested data that is compliant with a Profile-enabled XDM schema will automatically add or overwrite the appropriate record in Real-Time Customer Profile. 
If more than one identity is supplied in the record, or time series data is consumed, those identities will be mapped in the identity graph without additional configuration. 
See the streaming ingestion developer guide to learn more.

Confirm that the upload is successful:


When uploading data to a new dataset for the first time, or as part of a process involving a new ETL or data source,
it is recommended to carefully check the data to ensure it has been uploaded correctly.

Using the Real-Time Customer Profile Access API, you can retrieve batch data as it gets loaded into a dataset. 
If you are unable to retrieve any of the entities you expect, your dataset may not be enabled for Profile. 
After confirming that your dataset has been enabled, ensure that your source data format and identifiers support your expectations.

For detailed instructions on how to access entities using the Real-Time Customer Profile API,
  please refer to the entities endpoint guide, also known as the “Profile Access API”

https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/xdm/home.html?lang=en

XDM Schemas:
Before data can be ingested into Platform, a schema must be composed to describe the data’s structure and
provide constraints to the type of data that can be contained within each field.
Schemas consist of a base class and zero or more schema field groups.
Data behaviors in XDM System:

Data intended for use in Experience Platform is grouped into three behavior types:

Record: Provides information about the attributes of a subject. A subject could be an organization or an individual.
Time-series: Provides a snapshot of the system at the time an action was taken either directly or indirectly by a record subject.
Ad-hoc: Captures fields that are namespaced for usage only by a single dataset. Ad-hoc schemas are used in various data ingestion workflows for Experience Platform, including ingesting CSV files and creating certain kinds of source connections.
All XDM schemas describe data that can be categorized as record or time series. The data behavior of a schema is defined by the schema’s class, which is assigned to a schema when it is first created.

Although you are able to define your own classes within the Schema Registry, 
it is recommended that you use the standard classes XDM Individual Profile and XDM ExperienceEvent 
for record and time-series data, respectively.

XDM ExperienceEvent class:
https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/xdm/classes/experienceevent.html?lang=en
https://experienceleague.adobe.com/docs/experience-platform/xdm/schema/composition.html?lang=en

Identity:
Schemas are used for ingesting data into Experience Platform. This data can be used across multiple services to create a single, unified view of an individual entity.

Notes: 
ASDA has 2 categories of business:
George, Groceries
A person bought clothes from George , while making bill payment , he /she was asked to provide email
Same person bought Groceries from Grocery store, while making bill payment , he /she was asked to provide phone number.
now ECID( Experience Cloud ID (ECID)) is the id which identiies these email and phone number from the same person and this profile is used.



